Abdulla ashurov/issue102 (#360)
zigbee-alliance/distributed-compliance-ledger: bench/README.md

## Preparation

* Copy local accounts keys to folder `~/.dcl/keyring-test`:
    ```bash
    cp ./.localnet/node0/keyring-test/* ~/.dcl/keyring-test

>     ```

Reviewer: This instruction is valid only for running load tests against localnet. For generic use case you should specify only where you should put trustee keys

Author: I should remove from generic use case?

Author: Done! ✅

* Enter to `bench` folder
    ```bash
    cd bench
    ```
* Build `docker-compose` file
    ```bash
    docker-compose build
    ```
* Open the docker-compose.yml:
    * update fields `DCLD_VERSION`, `DCLD_NODE`, `DCLD_CHAIN_ID` for `args`.<br>
        e.g.:
        ```yml
        DCLD_VERSION: v0.11.0
        DCLD_NODE: tcp://host.docker.internal:26657

>         DCLD_CHAIN_ID: dclchain

Reviewer: This should be done before the build step

Author: Yes, It's correct!

        ```
    * update field `extra_hosts`.<br>
        e.g.:
        ```yml
        extra_hosts:
          - "host.docker.internal:host-gateway"
        ```
        `<host.docker.internal:host-gateway>` - need to connecting to localhost from locust container.

> 

Reviewer: We don't need this step. We can just update docker-compose file to always contain it.

Author: Done! ✅

## Run

### (Optional) Launch Prometheus

```bash
prometheus --config.file=bench/prometheus.yml
```

And open `http://localhost:9090/` to query and monitor the server-side metrics.

## Headless

To run write load tests

* Open the docker-compose.yml and update field `command` for `master` and `worker`.  
    e.g.: for `master`
    ```yml

>     command: -f /dcl/bench/locustfile.py --headless WriteModelLoadTest --master -H http://master:8089 

Reviewer: You could refactor `command` field in docker-compose.yml in the following way:
```yaml
command:
  - "-f"
  - "/dcl/bench/locustfile.py"
  - "--headless"
  - "--master"
  - "-H"
  - "http://master:8089"
  - "WriteModelLoadTest"
```
This could simplify writing instructions

Author: Done! ✅

    ```
    e.g.: for `worker`:
    ```yml
    command: -f /dcl/bench/locustfile.py --headless WriteModelLoadTest --worker --master-host master
    ```

* Run docker-compose.yml
    ```bash
    docker-compose up --scale worker=<workers-count>
    # The workers run your Users and send back statistics to the master. The master instance doesn't run any Users itself. Both the master and worker machines must have a copy of the locustfile when running Locust distributed.
    ```

>     `<workers-count>`- number of machine. `Number of users should be equal to number of workers for write tests.`

Reviewer: How do you specify number of users in headless mode?

Author: Done! ✅

To run read load tests

* Open the docker-compose.yml and update field `command` for `master` and `worker`.  
    e.g.: for `master`
    ```yml
    command: -f /dcl/bench/locustfile.py --headless ReadModelLoadTest --master -H http://master:8089 
    ```
    e.g.: for `worker`:
    ```yml
    command: -f /dcl/bench/locustfile.py --headless ReadModelLoadTest --worker --master-host master
    ```

* Run docker-compose.yml
    ```bash
    docker-compose up --scale worker=<workers-count>
    # The workers run your Users and send back statistics to the master. The master instance doesn't run any Users itself. Both the master and worker machines must have a copy of the locustfile when running Locust distributed.
    ```

>     `<workers-count>`- number of machine.

Reviewer: How to speify number of users in headless mode?

Author: Done! ✅

    # The workers run your Users and send back statistics to the master. The master instance doesn't run any Users itself. Both the master and worker machines must have a copy of the locustfile when running Locust distributed.
    ```
    `<workers-count>`- number of machine.

To run write/read load tests

* Open the docker-compose.yml and update field `command` for `master` and `worker`.  
    <br> e.g.: for `master`
    ```yml
    command: -f /dcl/bench/locustfile.py --master -H http://master:8089 
    ```
    e.g.: for `worker`:
    ```yml
    command: -f /dcl/bench/locustfile.py --worker --master-host master
    ```

* Run docker-compose.yml
    ```bash
    docker-compose up --scale worker=<workers-count>
    # The workers run your Users and send back statistics to the master. The master instance doesn't run any Users itself. Both the master and worker machines must have a copy of the locustfile when running Locust distributed.
    ```
    `<workers-count>`- number of machine. `Number of users should be equal to number of workers for write tests.`

Then you can open `http://localhost:8089/` and launch the tests from the browser.

> # For Local Running

Reviewer: `Running tests against local pool` would be a better title for this section

Author: Done! ✅

## Preparation

* Copy accounts keys to folder `~/.dcl/keyring-test`:
* Enter to `bench` folder
    ```bash
    cd bench
    ```

* Open the .env file:
    * update fields.<br>
        e.g.:
        ```yml
        DCLD_VERSION=v0.11.0
        DCLD_NODE=tcp://host.docker.internal:26657
        DCLD_CHAIN_ID=dclchain

        WRITE_HOSTS=http://host.docker.internal:26657
        READ_HOSTS=http://host.docker.internal:26640
        TRUSTEE_ACCOUNT_NAME=jack
        COUNT_USERS=4 

>         ```

Reviewer: Add clarification for each parameter below pls

Author: Done! ✅

## Preparation

> * Copy accounts keys to folder `~/.dcl/keyring-test`:

Reviewer 2: How can it be copied? Please provide a command. How the accounts can be initially generated?

Author: Done! ✅

* Enter to `bench` folder
    ```bash
    cd bench
    ```

* Open the .env file:
    * update fields.<br>
        e.g.:
        ```yml
        DCLD_VERSION=v0.11.0
        DCLD_NODE=tcp://host.docker.internal:26657
        DCLD_CHAIN_ID=dclchain

        WRITE_HOSTS=http://host.docker.internal:26657
        READ_HOSTS=http://host.docker.internal:26640
        TRUSTEE_ACCOUNT_NAME=jack
        COUNT_USERS=4 
        ```
        `<DCLD_VERSION>` - dcld binary version.<br>

>         `<DCLD_NODE>` - Address `<host>:<port>` of the node to connect. This node needs for adding account with role `Vendor` in write load tests.<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        `<DCLD_NODE>` - Address `<host>:<port>` of the node to connect. This node is needed for adding an account with the role `Vendor` in write load tests.<br>
```

        `<DCLD_CHAIN_ID>` - unique chain ID of the network you are going to connect.<br>
        `<WRITE_HOSTS>` - hosts for writing load tests.<br>
        `<READ_HOSTS>` - hosts for reading load tests.<br>
        `<TRUSTEE_ACCOUNT_NAME>` - trustee account name. `Trustee` account, which will add account with `Vendor` role in write load tests.<br>
        `<COUNT_USERS>` - number of users in load tests. `Number of users should be equal to number of workers for write tests.`

* Build `docker-compose` file
    ```bash
    docker-compose build
    ```

## Run

### (Optional) Launch Prometheus

```bash
prometheus --config.file=bench/prometheus.yml
```

And open `http://localhost:9090/` to query and monitor the server-side metrics.

> ## Headless

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Headless
```

    ```
    e.g.: for `worker`:
    ```yml
    command: 
      - "--headless"
      - "ReadModelLoadTest" 
    ```

* Run docker-compose.yml
    ```bash
    docker-compose up --scale worker=<workers-count>
    # The workers run your Users and send back statistics to the master. The master instance doesn't run any Users itself. Both the master and worker machines must have a copy of the locustfile when running Locust distributed.
    ```
    `<workers-count>`- number of machine.

To run write/read load tests

* Open the docker-compose.yml and add a new `command` for `master` and `worker`.  
    e.g.: for `master`
    ```yml
    command: 
      - "--headless"
    ```
    e.g.: for `worker`:
    ```yml
    command: 
      - "--headless" 
    ```

* Run docker-compose.yml
    ```bash
    docker-compose up --scale worker=<workers-count>
    # The workers run your Users and send back statistics to the master. The master instance doesn't run any Users itself. Both the master and worker machines must have a copy of the locustfile when running Locust distributed.
    ```
    `<workers-count>`- number of machine. `Number of users should be equal to number of workers for write tests.`

> ## Web UI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Web UI
```

* Open the docker-compose.yml and add a new `command` for `master` and `worker`.  
    <br> e.g.: for `master`
    ```yml
    command:
      - "ReadModelLoadTest" 
    ```
    e.g.: for `worker`: 
    ```yml
    command: 
      - "ReadModelLoadTest" 
    ```

* Run docker-compose.yml
    ```bash
    docker-compose up --scale worker=<workers-count>
    # The workers run your Users and send back statistics to the master. The master instance doesn't run any Users itself. Both the master and worker machines must have a copy of the locustfile when running Locust distributed.
    ```
    `<workers-count>`- number of machine.

To run write/read load tests

* Run docker-compose.yml
    ```bash
    docker-compose up --scale worker=<workers-count>
    # The workers run your Users and send back statistics to the master. The master instance doesn't run any Users itself. Both the master and worker machines must have a copy of the locustfile when running Locust distributed.
    ```
    `<workers-count>`- number of machine. `Number of users should be equal to number of workers for write tests.`

Then you can open `http://localhost:8089/` and launch the tests from the browser.

> # Running tests against local pool

Reviewer 2: What is the difference between this section and `Run` section? Is seems the only difference is in the configs (docker endpoints in one case and some generic node URLs in another)? Please get rid of that redundancy.

## Preparation

> * If you are running load tests on a local pool, follow these are steps (**this item need only for the local pool**):<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If you run load tests on a local pool, follow the steps below (**this item is needed only for a local pool**):<br>
```

  * Each write transactions is signed and thus requires:

    * an account with write permissions (e.g. Vendor account)
    * proper values for txn `sequence` which enforces txns ordering for an account

  * Initialize the pool and test accounts (**Warning** applicable to local in-docker pool only for now):

      ```bash
      make localnet_clean

      make localnet_init

      make localnet_start
      # Note: once started ledger may require some time to complete the initialization.
      ```

>   * Copy local accounts keys to folder `~/.dcl/keyring-test`:

Reviewer 2: Let's move the item here to the next section (see the next comment)

Author: Done! ✅

      ```bash
      cp ./.localnet/node0/keyring-test/* ~/.dcl/keyring-test
      ```

> * Copy accounts keys to folder `~/.dcl/keyring-test` (**this item does not need for the local pool**):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Copy accounts keys to folder `~/.dcl/keyring-test`:
```

    * After connecting to the network, we must copy the `Trustee` account keys to `~/.dcl/keyring-test`. <br>

>     `The number of accounts with role Trustee must not exceed 3`.

Reviewer 2: Add a sub-item:

* If you run the test against a local pool, the account keys can be copied as follows:
 ```bash
       cp ./.localnet/node0/keyring-test/* ~/.dcl/keyring-test
  ```

Author: Done! ✅

> * Enter to `bench` folder

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Go to `bench` folder
```

    ```bash
    cd bench
    ```

* Open the .env file:
    * update fields.<br>
        e.g.:
        ```yml
        DCLD_VERSION=v0.11.0
        DCLD_NODE=tcp://host.docker.internal:26657
        DCLD_CHAIN_ID=dclchain

        WRITE_HOSTS=http://host.docker.internal:26657
        READ_HOSTS=http://host.docker.internal:26640
        TRUSTEE_ACCOUNT_NAME=jack
        COUNT_USERS=4 
        ```
        `<DCLD_VERSION>` - dcld binary version.<br>

>         `<DCLD_NODE>` - Address `<host>:<port>` of the node to connect. This node needs for adding account with role `Vendor` in write load tests.<br>

Reviewer 2: Please explicitly mention (for DCLD_NODE, WRITE_HOSTS, READ_HOSTS) that it can either point to a local in-docker nodes, or to external nodes. Please mention what value should be used for the local in-docker case.

Author: Done! ✅

* an account with write permissions (e.g. Vendor account)
* proper values for txn `sequence` which enforces txns ordering for an account

> * Initialize the pool and test accounts (**Warning** applicable to local in-docker pool only for now):

Reviewer: Consider providing general instructions (not only for localnet) first and provide example with localnet

Author: Done! ✅

    ```bash

>     make localnet_clean

Reviewer: Keep the old comments pls

Author: Done! ✅

> ## Headless

Reviewer: Steps for building docker image with DCL_NODE and DCL_VERSION parameters is missing

Author: Done! ✅

To run write load tests

> * Open the docker-compose.yml and update field `command` for `master` and `worker`.  

Reviewer: Mention about `host.docker.internal` hostname when connecting to localhost from locust container. Provide relevant links

Author: Done! ✅

    e.g.: for `master`
    ```yml
    command: -f /dcl/bench/locustfile.py --headless WriteModelLoadTest --master -H http://master:8089 
    ```
    e.g.: for `worker`:
    ```yml
    command: -f /dcl/bench/locustfile.py --headless WriteModelLoadTest --worker --master-host master
    ```

* Run docker-compose.yml
    ```bash
    docker-compose up --scale worker=<workers-count>
    # The workers run your Users and send back statistics to the master. The master instance doesn't run any Users itself. Both the master and worker machines must have a copy of the locustfile when running Locust distributed.
    ```

>     `<workers-count>`- number of machine.

Reviewer: Mention that number of users should equal to number of workers for write tests

Author: Done! ✅

    # The workers run your Users and send back statistics to the master. The master instance doesn't run any Users itself. Both the master and worker machines must have a copy of the locustfile when running Locust distributed.
    ```
    `<workers-count>`- number of machine.

## Web UI

To run write load tests

* Open the docker-compose.yml and update field `command` for `master` and `worker`.  
    <br> e.g.: for `master`
    ```yml
    command: -f /dcl/bench/locustfile.py WriteModelLoadTest --master -H http://master:8089 
    ```
    e.g.: for `worker`:
    ```yml
    command: -f /dcl/bench/locustfile.py WriteModelLoadTest --worker --master-host master
    ```

* Run docker-compose.yml
    ```bash
    docker-compose up --scale worker=<workers-count>
    # The workers run your Users and send back statistics to the master. The master instance doesn't run any Users itself. Both the master and worker machines must have a copy of the locustfile when running Locust distributed.
    ```
    `<workers-count>`- number of machine.

To run read load tests

* Open the docker-compose.yml and update field `command` for `master` and `worker`.  

>     <br> e.g.: for `master`

Reviewer: Please check that this configuration works without any issues. Because if 2 write users run in one worker they may cause a concurrency issue

Author: Done! ✅

> ## Headless

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Headless
```

    ```
    `<workers-count>`- number of machine.

To run write/read load tests

* Open the docker-compose.yml and add a new `command` for `master` and `worker`.  
    e.g.: for `master`
    ```yml
    command: 
      - "--headless"
    ```
    e.g.: for `worker`:
    ```yml
    command: 
      - "--headless" 
    ```
* Open the docker-compose.yml and add a new field `extra_hosts` for `master` and `worker` (**this item need only for the local pool**):<br>
  e.g.: for `master`
  ```yml
  extra_hosts:
    - "host.docker.internal:host-gateway"
  ```
  e.g.: for `worker`
  ```yml
  extra_hosts:
    - "host.docker.internal:host-gateway"
  ```
  `<host.docker.internal:host-gateway>` - need to connecting to localhost from locust container.

* Run docker-compose.yml
    ```bash
    docker-compose up --scale worker=<workers-count>
    # The workers run your Users and send back statistics to the master. The master instance doesn't run any Users itself. Both the master and worker machines must have a copy of the locustfile when running Locust distributed.
    ```
    `<workers-count>`- number of machine. `Number of users should be equal to number of workers for write tests.`

> ## Web UI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Web UI
```

    ```
    `<workers-count>`- number of machine.

To run write/read load tests

* Open the docker-compose.yml and add a new field `extra_hosts` for `master` and `worker` (**this item need only for the local pool**):<br>
  e.g.: for `master`
  ```yml
  extra_hosts:
    - "host.docker.internal:host-gateway"
  ```
  e.g.: for `worker`
  ```yml
  extra_hosts:
    - "host.docker.internal:host-gateway"
  ```
  `<host.docker.internal:host-gateway>` - need to connecting to localhost from locust container.

* Run docker-compose.yml
    ```bash
    docker-compose up --scale worker=<workers-count>
    # The workers run your Users and send back statistics to the master. The master instance doesn't run any Users itself. Both the master and worker machines must have a copy of the locustfile when running Locust distributed.
    ```
    `<workers-count>`- number of machine. `Number of users should be equal to number of workers for write tests.`

Then you can open `http://localhost:8089/` and launch the tests from the browser.

> Statistic options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Statistic Options
```

> 

Reviewer 2: It's not clear where to set these statistic params. For what command they are provided?
It looks like they should be put into docker-compose.yml for the locust command. Please mention this explicitly.

Author: Done! ✅

* Open the docker-compose.yml and add a new `command` for `master` and `worker`.  
    <br> e.g.: for `master`
    ```yml
    command: 
      - "ReadModelLoadTest" 
    ```
    e.g.: for `worker`: 
    ```yml
    command: 
      - "ReadModelLoadTest" 
    ```

* Run docker-compose.yml
    ```bash
    docker-compose up --scale worker=<workers-count>
    # The workers run your Users and send back statistics to the master. The master instance doesn't run any Users itself. Both the master and worker machines must have a copy of the locustfile when running Locust distributed.
    ```
    `<workers-count>`- number of machine.

To run write/read load tests

* Run docker-compose.yml
    ```bash
    docker-compose up --scale worker=<workers-count>
    # The workers run your Users and send back statistics to the master. The master instance doesn't run any Users itself. Both the master and worker machines must have a copy of the locustfile when running Locust distributed.
    ```
    `<workers-count>`- number of machine. `Number of users should be equal to number of workers for write tests.`

Then you can open `http://localhost:8089/` and launch the tests from the browser.

> 

Reviewer 2: Do we still need the configuration section? It's not clear for what command these params for.

    E.g. for local ledger `http://localhost:26657,http://localhost:26659,http://localhost:26661,http://localhost:26663` will specify all the nodes.
* `--dcl-rest-hosts <comma-sepated-list>`: list of DCL nodes to target. Each user randomly picks one
    E.g. for local ledger `http://localhost:26640,http://localhost:26641,http://localhost:26642,http://localhost:26643` will specify all the nodes.
* `--dcl-trustee-account-name`: name of existing Trustee account.
    E.g. for local ledger `jack`. Jack is Trustee account name

> 

Reviewer 2: Please update TODO section. I think most of the items there are already done.
